
JWT - JWT (JSON Web Token) is an open standard for securely transmitting information between parties 
as a JSON object. It consists of three parts: a header (which specifies the token type and algorithm 
used for signing), a payload (which contains the claims or the data being transmitted), and a 
signature (which is used to verify the token’s integrity and authenticity). JWTs are commonly used 
for authentication and authorization purposes, allowing users to securely transmit and validate 
their identity and permissions across web applications and APIs. They are compact, self-contained, 
and can be easily transmitted in HTTP headers, making them popular for modern web and mobile applications.

official website = 'jwt.io'

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way 
for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be 
verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the 
HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.


JWTs can be encrypted to also provide secrecy between parties.

Signed tokens can verify the integrity of the claims contained within it, while encrypted tokens 
hide those claims from other parties. When tokens are signed using public/private key pairs, the 
signature also certifies that only the party holding the private key is the one that signed it.


some scenarios where JSON Web Tokens are useful:- 

Authorization: This is the most common scenario for using JWT. Once the user is logged in, each 
subsequent request will include the JWT, allowing the user to access routes, services, and resources 
that are permitted with that token. Single Sign On is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, 
because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains.


Information Exchange: JSON Web Tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information between 
parties. Because JWTs can be signed—for example, using public/private key pairs—you can be sure the 
senders are who they say they are. Additionally, as the signature is calculated using the header 
and the payload, you can also verify that the content hasn't been tampered with.

JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots:- 

♦ Header- The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the 
signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.
ex: {
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}


♦ Payload- The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are 
statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data. There are three types of 
claims: registered, public, and private claims.
ex: {
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "admin": true
}


♦ Signature- The signature is used to verify the message wasn't changed along the way, and, in the 
case of tokens signed with a private key, it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it 
says it is.

